Now let's add the tests for the routing functionality.
We are gathering all these routings in the app component and it will be responsible for changing the
page based on the browser path.
So let's add the test to the app component module.
So opening the app component spec.
Previously we cleared the tests here, but now we will add our own test.
This module was created initially when we created the application and there is difference between the
before each right here and before each in the sign up component.
We created this sign sign component with the angular cli after we created the project and the before.
Each section is like this.
As you can see, there is the before each for testbed configure testing module and there is another
before each which is for creating the the component we are testing.
So let's use a similar approach here.
We are also accusing the the variables in the test.
So let's go with a similar approach.
So just copying this this second before each and pasting after and the one in the app component test.
So we are going to test the app component and we have the variable of fixture.
Let's copy these as well.
So here we have the variables for the component is going to be a component and the component fixture
is going to be for app component as well.
So we are here creating the component, having these variables and now we can add our first test.
So just removing this one and creating a new describe look right here and this is for, let's say,
routing.
We will have the routing tests here.
And our first test is it displays home page at this pad.
So having the test function now what we are going to do is basically when the component is rendered,
we will be at the home page.
We are not doing anything about navigation, so we are expecting to see the home page.
And at the moment in the home page we don't have anything to query and we don't know what the home page
will contain.
So in these kind of cases, like just like we did in the sign up components, the, the validation error
sections like here we set the test ID and we query that because the text content may change.
So we go with an ID that we can rely on.
So we will do the same thing here.
So in the fixture you get the native element.
This is the returning of the app app component.
And in this one we will query and we are going to query an element having the attributes of data test
ID and let's say for the home page we will use the test ideas home dash page and closing the square
brackets here.
And let's say this is the page and we are expecting this page to be 330.
So it's going to be returning value returning to the element for this one.
At the moment, our test setup is not really ready, but let's go step by step.
So saving this one.
And here we see the test is failing.
This is the the routing test it displays on page at this URL.
And basically this is returning null.
But we know that this is working on browser.
We have seen how it is working, how the navigation is working.
One of the fail reasons is in home page.
We don't have this test yet.
Let's add it.
Just copying this this part and opening home component to HTML and let's let's say we have a div having
this data test ID and the values homepage and closing this div.
And let's say we have this header, it doesn't matter what we have is a content here.
It's just for like when we test on browser, just add something meaningful to reflect the page.
So when we save this, it's not doing anything because at the moment the, the routing is working on
the browser, but in our test configuration here we are just rendering this app component.
But if you remember, if you check this sign up component spec here we were rendering the component,
but also we were importing the relevant modules.
So just like we did in these tests, we will do the similar thing here.
So if we open the app component spec, we are going to not just declare the app component, but also
we are going to import the router module, but we are not going to import the router module, but we
will import router testing module.
So this is coming from.
It's coming from router testing module from angular router testing.
Again, this should be something familiar to you because in the application we are using HTP client
module, but in test we are using the testing module.
A testing version of that is typical in module and this is giving us the options to interact with the
HTP client we are using so we can control the behavior of the HTP client in our test and we can achieve
the functionalities we are looking for.
And similarly, the routing has the same thing.
So we have this router testing module, just like configuring the router here in the router, a router
module, we will pass the routes, we can use the same routes array so we can export this one and let's
import it in the.
The component specs.
So again, we are going to configure this throughout the router testing module.
But unlike a router module, this doesn't have the four route, but it has width routes function and
we are going to pass the the routes coming from our router module.
So this is how we are configuring the the router functionality in our test.
But this is not complete yet.
In the app component, we are using the sign up component and the home component.
So just like we again declared those in the app module, we have to declare them as well in the test
module.
So we are going to have the sign up component and we have the home component.
If you save at this point, it's not going to fix.
But let's see that.
It's not fixing because the.
The rendering is not really having to do anything about the pet at the moment.
We are just rendering this component right here.
We are creating the component.
But this has nothing to do with the pets of the URLs or it doesn't have anything about those parts.
To achieve the routing functionality we need to access to the router instance in the application and
we can get that again.
This is something similar in we did in the the sign up case like the HTP client testing controller here
we get it like this and we interact with it.
So we will do the same thing here, but this time we will access to the router.
So let's have the variable first.
We will have router instance and this is router, this is the angular router.
So we are going to get the router from testbed.
We are looking for a router to be injected here.
So this is the setup part.
Now we can update our test.
Now we are going to make sure the router is navigated to the URL.
So we will be using this router's navigate functionality and this is taking an array.
And in this area we are just going to pass the path this slash.
But this is async, so we need to wait here before the navigation is completed.
So we must be making sure our test is async.
So this is handling the navigation.
So this is making sure the router is having this path.
But to reflect the changes on the UI we need to call fixture detect changes here.
So at this point the router is having this path.
Then we are telling Angular to update the UI and based on the router configuration, we are expecting
this test ID homepage to be visible.
So this is the test.
Let's save this.
And here we see it is passing.
So it is working.
Now let's add the test for the sign up case.
So just copying the test for the home page and now it is going to like displays sign up page at the
sign up URL.
So for this one, we are going to navigate to the signup URL.
We are waiting for UI to be updated.
Then again, we are going to query something from that page and let's have a consistent pattern here
and let's use data test data as well.
And for the signup page, let's say we will have the test ID like the sign up page.
So in let's open the signup component and let's make sure we set to the route if it said data test.
I.D. equals sign up page.
So we are querying this to make sure it is there.
So in app component spec, now we are querying this thing and making sure it is there saving this one.
Now we have another failure.
And this should be familiar to you because we have seen this one previously.
Now we are basically trying to display the sign up page.
But the signup component is dependent on to the to the user service and user service is dependent onto
the HTP client.
So we must be updating our setup here.
So other than the router testing module, we are dependent onto that one as well.
So just like we did in the again sign up component, that one can sign up component spec.
So we were importing this HTP client testing module, so we will do the same thing.
Here as well.
So just copy the import part.
Taking the HTP client testing module and adding it to the import array.
We are doing this because the user service depends on to the client and HTP client for the test test
environment.
We can take that one from this HTP client testing module.
So saving this one.
And here we see the test is passing.
Now, it's not obvious at the moment, but if we opened the console of.
Karma here.
Here we have the errors and we still see errors about button or form.
That's happening because in sign up page we are using the app button component and also we have reactive
form implementation.
But in this test setup, again, if we open the test here, we didn't declare the button or we didn't
import the reactive forms module.
So we need to update this part as well.
Basically in the module we were importing this shared module and this shared module was exporting the
load and the button component so we can import the.
The shared module here shared the module.
So with this way we got the two button and for the form related errors, we need to import the reactive
forms module.
So let's save this one.
And if we open the console here now, it is clear now the console does not have any error.
Instead of having these declarations or imports, we could we could do something like this.
So just commenting out this part and what we would do is basically we could just import the EP module,
which is the root module, and that's basically doing all those imports like the the declarations or
the, the others are being imported in this module.
So we just import this and then we also need to do the router configuration here.
So like we could go like this, let's see, let's see how it's going to work and this is working.
And if you open the console, it is clear so we could go like this, but this would be adding unnecessary
modules and components to the test we are running here.
So this may end up with a slower process for the test.
And also as a developer we wouldn't be having a clear understanding about which components or modules
are necessary in our tests, so it is better to import only the necessary components and modules.
So just removing that thing and incrementing this part.
So let's save this.
And the tests are passing and the console is clear.